# World Happiness Multivariate Analysis with R

*This repository contains the final project in the course Multivariate Statistical Analysis at Aalto University*

Finland is well-known for its performance in many global ranking leaderboards (Statistic Finland, 2018). In a recent publish conducted by the United Nations (UN) (YLE, 2019), Finland is again ranked as the happiest country in the world for the second consecutive year. As a foreigner coming from a tropical land, the author is truly amazed, because to him, happiness is about beaches, sunshine and parties. Finland, in contrast, has a cold weather and dark winter, but the people are still the happiest in the world! Thus, it makes the author wonder what are the characteristics of happiness defined by citizens in a country. To utilize the content learnt from this course and to satisfy a part of his curiosity, the author therefore would like to dig into this ranking – *the World Happiness Report (WHR)*.

WHR is an international annual report published by the UN, comparing amongst countries according to the perception of their citizens on various life factors. Methodology-wise, the report ranks countries based on the average happiness score, by asking the citizens to evaluate the quality of their current lives, averaged over the last 03 years. In addition, it tries to explain this score by modeling it with other factors, such as GDP per capita, social support – to name a few. Even though there are various controversies about its methodologies, metrics and data (Smith, 2017), WHR still gives an idea of how quality of life varies across countries globally.

In this project, the author only uses the data provided by WHR to conduct his own analysis. That means, he does not repeat what was conducted in WHR before because his ultimate purpose is different from WHR. Primarily, this project aims at finding latent relationships among factors used and trying to explain the characteristics of happiness defined by the citizens over the world, instead of ranking countries as what WHR did. Secondly, the focus of WHR also changes year by year - such as, in 2018 WHR focused on international migration, in 2019 it is the effect of technologies on lives; thus, their variables are more complex. The author only picks a subset of data from WHR to use in this project. Therefore, the findings of this analysis might also differ from WHR’s.
